DPRIVE Charter 2.0

The DNS PRIVate Exchange (DPRIVE) Working Group develops mechanisms
to provide confidentiality to DNS transactions in order to address
concerns surrounding pervasive monitoring (RFC 7258).

The set of DNS requests that an individual makes can provide an
attacker with a large amount of information about that individual.
DPRIVE aims to deprive the attacker of this information (The IETF
defines pervasive monitoring as an attack [RFC7258]).

The initial focus of this Working Group was the development of
mechanisms that provide confidentiality and authentication between
DNS Clients and Iterative Resolvers (published as RFCs 7858 and
8094). With proposed standard solutions for the client-to-iterative
resolvers published, the working group turns its attention to the
development of documents focused on: 1) providing confidentiality
to DNS transactions between Iterative Resolvers and Authoritative
Servers, 2) measuring the performance of the proposed solutions
against pervasive monitoring, and 3) developing recommendations for
DNS privacy operational practices.  Some of the results of this working
group may be experimental. There are numerous aspects that differ
between DNS exchanges with an iterative resolver and exchanges
involving DNS root/authoritative servers. The working group will
work with DNS operators and developers (via the DNSOP WG) to ensure
that proposed solutions address key requirements.

DPRIVE is chartered to work on mechanisms that add confidentiality
to the DNS. While it may be tempting to solve other DNS issues while
adding confidentiality, DPRIVE is not the working group to do this.
DPRIVE will not work on any integrity-only mechanisms.  Examples
of the sorts of risks that DPRIVE will address can be found in [RFC
7626], and include both passive wiretapping and more active attacks,
such as MITM attacks. DPRIVE will address risks to end-users' privacy
(for example, which websites an end user is accessing).

DPRIVE Work Items:

- Develop requirements for adding confidentiality to DNS exchanges
between recursive resolvers and authoritative servers (unpublished
document).

- Investigate potential solutions for adding confidentiality to DNS
exchanges involving authoritative servers (Experimental).

- Define, collect and publish performance data measuring effectiveness
of DPRIVE-published technologies against pervasive monitoring
attacks.

- Document Best Current Practices for operating DNS Privacy services.
